---
description: >-
  Customize the Invoices and Receipts that are generated by the platform on
  behalf of your Fiscal Host.
icon: receipt
---

# Configure Invoices and Receipts

Open Collective has a range of customizable settings make sure that all Invoices and Receipts generated by the platform fit your Fiscal Host's needs and remain legally compliant.

## Set "Bill To" Section on Invoices

Navigate to your Fiscal Host Dashboard > Settings > Invoices & Receipts. In the Expenses section, select whether you would like for Expense Invoices generated by the platform to feature the Fiscal Host's information or the individual Collective's details.&#x20;

{% hint style="warning" %}
You need to make sure that whichever option you select is legal under your jurisdiction.
{% endhint %}

## Customizing Receipts

Open Collective allows Fiscal Hosts to have multiple receipt templates to serve different use cases. One common example is that non-profits will use their default receipt to provide additional information to contributors who would like to receive tax breaks on their contribution, and another receipt template for tiers that correspond to non-tax-exempt contributions, like when someone receives a good or service in exchange for their contribution.

To customize your receipt templates, navigate to your Fiscal Host Dashboard > Settings > Invoices & Receipts and scroll down to **Financial contributions**.&#x20;

Under **Receipt title** you can enter a specific identifier for the receipt. This is particularly helpful if you have multiple receipt templates associated with your account.

**Custom Message** is a field that allows you to enter whatever text may be relevant to your specific situation, such as tax ID number or information about the tax deductibility of contributions.&#x20;

### Alternative Receipts

If your organization has a need for more than one receipt type, it is possible to add alternative receipt templates. In the **Alternative receipt template** section, click the "+ Add alternative receipt" button and fill out both of the fields that appear.&#x20;

To select which receipt you would like used, navigate to your Fiscal Host Dashboard > Tiers and select the tier that you would like to change. At the bottom of the page, in the **Choose receipt** drop down, select from your available receipt templates.

{% hint style="info" %}
Please advise your Collectives to select the correct receipt setting for any tiers where the alternative receipt should be used, or manage related contributions through the Add Funds process, where you as the Host Admin can select the correct receipt.
{% endhint %}
